# Open-Digital-Library
Open Digital Library app will bridge the gap between a physical library and its readers. This app not only contains digital eBooks freely and legally available from various open initiatives like archive.org and Project Gutenberg but also gives reader the ability to borrow the books from a local physical library. This app is developed using the python programming language and its various modules like Tkinter, mysql, smtplib, cryptography, webview, etc. Open Digital Library project consists of two apps, Open Library Admin and Open Digital Library app. Open Library Admin is for the librarians to do their traditional tasks like adding or issuing a book as well as the keep a history of all the books issued/returned . It will automatically send emails to the respective reader whenever a book is issued or returned and also for an early reminder for returning the book. The Open Digital Library is the main app which contains all the books categorized by their respective type. There are two types of book in this app, eBooks which can be read online without any hassle of issuing it and another are the physical books which can be reserved by this app and later checked out at your local library. The physical books are published by your organization’s librarian using the Open Library Admin software, while the free eBooks are gathered from various legal sources like archive.org and Project Gutenberg. The user/reader has to provide his/her name and email address for communication purposes and data collecting like how many books had been read or issued by him/her. The Open Digital Library app can be used as both individually or as a pair with Open Library Admin app, if the organization has implemented it in their library. So, the software successfully works as a digital platform for reading eBooks as well as provides a convenient system of borrowing the books from a physical library. 
